We will endeavor to create a traffic simulation program within the GridWorld environment. This program will keep track of traffic conditions and simulate driver decisions as well as run a series of traffic lights to control the motion of the cars and attempt to alleviate any congestion or stress on the traffic grid. It will be of use for developing an algorithm to account for traffic fluctuations and measure its effectiveness in an interactive environment.
We will have a variety of actor types, including cars, stop lights (four squares in size), road segments, and scenery. Within each type, the exact implementation can vary. We will likely have several types of car (trucks, compacts, SUVs, etc.), different stop light designs (left turn yields, 4-way, 3-way, 2-way, etc.), different road segments (country road, highway, stop light sensor, etc.), and different types of scenery (trees, bushes, the rocks made so infamous by GridWorld itself, etc.).
The road pieces with sensors will interact with both cars and stop lights in order to convey information about approaching vehicles and allow the stop lights to accommodate for traffic patterns. The stop lights will communicate with cars in order to dictate which pathways are open to their movement and allow them to move through the roads at an ideal pace.
The existing GridWorld framework should be satisfactory for the most part. There are no major changes that we can foresee. It should be possible to work entirely within the existing specification for an Actor.
The program development process will likely begin with the development of the car and road classes, and once these are operating properly, then it will be a reasonable next step to implement the stop light class. The last step will be scenery, as it is not all that important to the functionality of the program, but is rather something of a fancy detail that may be added for visual effect.